Minutes of Extraordinary Regional Council Meeting - 20 March 2019
MINUTES OF An
extraordinary meeting of the Regional Council
Date:                          Wednesday 20 March 2019
Time:                          3.00pm
Venue:
Council Chamber
Hawke's Bay Regional Council
159 Dalton Street
NAPIER
Present:                     R Graham - Chairman
P Bailey
P Beaven
T Belford
D Hewitt
N Kirton
F Wilson
In Attendance:          J Palmer – Chief Executive
P Munro – Te
Pou Whakarae Māori Partnerships
J Ellerm –
Group Manager Corporate Services
A Roets – Governance
Administration Assistant
Submitters as noted
1.       Welcome/ Apologies/ Notices
The Chair
welcomed everyone to the meeting.
Resolution
RC30/19That apologies for absence from Mike Mohi and Councillors Rick
Barker and Alan Dick be accepted.
Wilson/Belford
CARRIED
2.       Conflict of Interest Declarations
There were no conflict
of interest declarations.
3.       Confirmation
of Minutes of the Regional Council Meeting Held on 27 February 2019
RC31/19
Resolution
Minutes of the Regional Council Meeting held on Wednesday, 27
February 2019, a copy having been circulated prior to the meeting, were taken
as read and confirmed as a true and correct record.
Bailey/Wilson
CARRIED
4.
Hearings and Decision Making Processes
for Additional Council Controlled Organisation to Support IPO Transaction
RC32/19
Resolution
That Hawke’s Bay Regional Council receives
and considers the verbal and written submissions, including social media
comments received on “Consultation on establishing an additional
Council Controlled Organisation” as provided and in accordance
with the consultation provisions of the Local Government Act 2002.
Belford/Wilson
CARRIED
Council commenced hearing verbal submissions
Bruce
Bisset (sub #32) – was scheduled to speak at 3.10pm, however has since submitted his apology as
he is unable to attend.  Mr Bisset submitted
that Council should consider appointing senior representatives, such as its
Chairman and CE, to the HoldCo board to best protect the asset on the
public’s behalf
3.10pm     Jan
Vaessen (sub #75) – submitted that concerned about the Port directors
being the directors and in control of HoldCo – essential that ratepayers
have good representation on HoldCo to ensure ratepayer interests are served.
3.15pm     Roger
Muir (sub #31) – submitted that he does not support the IPO listing Does
not believe the HoldCo-formula is the way forward and concerned about the
cost of setting up another entity.
Jessica
Ellerm tabled a late submission from Samuel Solomon.  Mr Solomon supports
the proposal and notes that it is better than selling the Port to an
international investor.
3.35pm     Daniel
McKnight (sub #33) – submitted that Napier Port should not be sold.
Closure:
There
being no further business the Chairman declared the meeting closed at 3.52pm on
Wednesday, 20 March 2019.
Pieri
Munro closed the meeting with a karakia.
Signed
as a true and correct record.
DATE: ................................................               CHAIRMAN:
...............................................